Claw Code has so many features at this
point that it's genuinely hard to keep
up. And Q1 2026 didn't make it any
easier. Anthropic shipped more this
quarter than most tools do in a year. So
if you want to get up to speed fast,
this video is going to show you what
actually matters. Now, some of these
updates completely change how you use CL
code, but some of them honestly aren't
even worth your time. So instead of
walking through every single update,
I've grouped the last 3 months into a
few things that will actually make a
difference to your dayto-day. Let's get
started with how you can now use Claude
from anywhere. So, up until recently,
Claude code lived in your terminal. So,
you sat at your desk, you typed in
commands, and if you walked away, that
was it. Your session was over. But then,
OpenClaw went viral. And suddenly,
everyone saw what it looked like when
you could message your AI from Telegram,
from WhatsApp, and from your phone
whilst you're out walking the dog. And
you probably saw people were going
absolutely crazy buying dedicated Mac
minis just to run this 24/7, even if
they had no real reason to. And one of
the standout features of OpenClaw that
made it so popular in the first place
was, of course, phone use. So what did
Anthropic do? They went on an absolute
feature spree. And in about 4 weeks,
they shipped not one, not two, but four
different ways to use Claude without
sitting at your desk. So first up, we
had remote control. This landed at the
end of Feb. So you start a claude code
session in your terminal and then you
pick it up and continue from your phone
or any browser. So nothing runs in the
cloud here. Your machine stays running
and Claude keeps working locally and the
mobile interface is just a window into
that session. So you get a URL or a QR
code. You scan it and then you're into
the session. Now the good thing about
this is it's dead simple to set up.
Anyone can do it in about 30 seconds,
but you are limited to one session at a
time and you still have to approve every
action manually. So there was no
dangerously skip permissions mode there.
So if Claude needs permission to write a
file whilst you're on that walk, it's
going to sit there waiting for you to
tap yes and not notify you. There was no
way to automatically approve
permissions. Then just two weeks later,
co-work got something called dispatch,
which as it sounds, dispatches tasks to
Claude Co-work from anywhere. And this
one's a little bit different. So
dispatch isn't just controlling a
session from your phone. It's actually
an orchestrator. So you have one
persistent conversation thread with
Claude. You send that conversation a
task from your phone and Claude figures
out what kind of session to spin up and
code tasks get passed to Claude code.
Knowledge work gets passed to Claude
co-work and each one runs independently
on your desktop and then you get push
notifications when things are done. Now
this was great because you can direct
multiple parallel tasks from your phone
whilst you're doing other stuff. But the
not so good is your desktop still has to
stay awake and the app has to be open.
So close the lid on your laptop and
you've lost the session. So actually one
user Pavle tracked his usage over 48
hours when he started using dispatch and
he spent a total of 25 minutes giving
direction from his phone but Claude in
the background ran over 3 hours of
parallel work. He did a competitor
analysis during his coffee, iterated on
designs at a trampoline park with his
kids and reviewed everything when he sat
back down. So this is starting to feel
like a different way of working, right?
You can just delegate for 25 minutes and
get 3 and 1/2 hours worth of work out
the back of it. And then Anthropic took
it one level further. So on March the
20th, a feature called channels dropped.
And this is the one that they were
literally calling the open claw killer.
So you can now message your claw code
session from Telegram, Discord, or even
iMessage. And it's a two-way chat as
well. So you send a task. Claude is
going to pick it up, do the work on your
machine, and reply back to you in that
same chat. So this is a little bit
different because you can now chat from
the apps that you already use and the
setup takes about 5 minutes. But again,
your machine still has to be running.
you close the terminal and you're going
to lose the channel. And it's also not
just you chatting with Claude. Channels
can also receive updates from the other
tools you use. So if a new lead comes
in, a form gets submitted, a payment
fails, an order gets flagged, then that
event is going to get pushed straight
into your claw code session. And Claw Co
can start to react to that when you're
not even there. So we're starting to
move towards Claude is not waiting for
you to ask, it's actually responding to
things happening inside your business,
much closer to OpenClaw. And finally,
computer use dropped on March the 23rd.
So Claude can now actually control your
Mac, point, click, open apps, navigate
to your browser, fill in spreadsheets,
fill in forms, and it pairs with
Dispatch. So you can effectively assign
a task from your phone, and Claude will
open whatever apps it needs on your
desktop to get it done. It can literally
control your screen, control your
browser, and act as you. Now, now
computer's still super early. It's in
research preview, Mac only, and Pro and
Max plans are the only area you can use
it. It's also slower than the direct API
integration. But for the long tale of
apps that will never have an MCP server,
like think about your enterprise
applications that are a bit older that
nobody's going to create an MCP server
for, then being able to point Claude at
the screen and say, "Do this task for me
is going to be a massive unlock for some
enterprises and also for some personal
use cases." So that's just four features
in four weeks that have turned Claude
code into an always on assistant that
you can now reach from anywhere, which
is what I call the open glorification of
Claude. But being able to reach it only
matters if you can actually leave it
alone to do its thing in the first
place. And that was the other big
problem that was solved this quarter. So
here's the frustration that everyone
had. Claude code would stop and ask
permissions for everything. So every
file write, every API call, and then if
you walked away, it just sat there
waiting for you to come back. So, you
had two choices originally. You could
babysit it, sit there clicking approve
on absolutely everything, or you can use
the dangerously skip permissions flag
and hope that it didn't delete anything.
So, neither was great, and we needed a
middle ground. And this quarter gave us
three solutions to this, and the first
is auto mode. So, this dropped recently,
March the 24th, and it's the one I'm
most excited about for practical daily
use. So, it's a completely new
permissions mode where a classifier
reviews every single action before it
runs and decides whether it's safe or
not. So, let me give you an example. Say
you ask Claude to build out a new
landing page. In the default mode,
Claude would stop and ask, "Can I create
this file?" You'd say yes. "Can I write
to this file?" You'd say yes. "Can I run
the npm install?" Yes. Can I start the
dev server? Yes. Etc., etc., you get the
point. So, you're just sat there tapping
approve over and over. And it turns out
from Anthropics research, developers
approve 93% of those prompts anyway. So
in auto mode, it's designed to basically
make that happen. So Claude creates
files, writes codes, installs packages,
and runs your tests automatically. But
if it tries to do something more risky
like delete a bunch of your files or
push to your main branch or send data
somewhere unexpected, then the
classifier is going to catch it and
block it. Claude then might try and take
a different approach, or if it really
insists, then it will actually come and
ask you. It's designed to reduce
friction but maintain safety. So to turn
this on, you can start clawed code with
claude- enable auto mode and then you
hit shift tab to cycle through your
permission modes until you land on auto.
But sadly right now auto mode is only
available on team plans. So if you're on
pro or max, you won't even see it yet.
Now if you're on pro or max and you're
thinking, "Oh great, so I'm still stuck
approving everything." There is a
workaround. You can set up your own
allow and deny rules in your settings
file. So basically you allow in your
settings.json for claw to read files and
folders to run dev server tests
formatting for editing and writing files
but you actually stop it from doing
things like installing packages deleting
your files anything that's going to send
data externally from your system and
also obviously reading your sensitive
files and secrets. So it's definitely
not as smart as auto mode classifier and
it won't reason about whether the action
is safe or not. It's a blanket yes no to
certain commands, but that will get you
80% of the way there and you can use it
right now on any plan. Now, there's two
other key updates to running tasks from
anywhere and I covered these in my last
updates video. These are loops and
scheduled tasks. So, here's the quick
version. Loops let you run recurring
prompts inside your current session for
up to 3 days. So, anything that you want
to auto repeat up to 3 days within your
current session. Now, scheduled tasks
started as local only inside the Clog
Code desktop app, but this quarter they
also shipped cloud-based recurring
tasks. So, you can now set up a repo,
set up a schedule, daily, weekly,
monthly, and a prompt. And it runs
whether your machine is awake or not.
So, this is a huge upgrade because it
now means we can actually run scheduled
tasks and workflows whilst we're not sat
at the machine. And if you think about
it, here's how these all fit together.
You set up a scheduled task to run every
single morning. That task runs in auto
mode so it doesn't get stuck asking you
for permissions. And if you need to
check in, you can message it via the
channels update from your phone. So
between auto mode loops and scheduled
tasks, you can now run real work without
even watching and claude code will
handle all the busy work. So it can run
on its own. But there's a problem that
builds up the longer it runs. And you
might have faced this if you've used
claw code for a while now, and that is
memory. So the more sessions you have,
the messier Claude's notes about you and
the work you've done get. And Anthropic
just fixed that in the most clever way.
So previously Claude code had something
called automemory. As you talk to
Claude, it starts understanding your
project preferences, build commands,
your architecture decisions, and
debugging solutions. And it captures
that memory for about a month of the
previous sessions. And that's been
brilliant until you've done about 50
sessions and those notes are full of
contradictions. You've got stale
references 3 weeks ago and the
information starts changing over time.
And to tackle that anthropic shift
something called autodream and the name
is deliberate. It's modeled on how your
brain consolidates memories during
sleep. And here's how it works. So
between your sessions, a background sub
agent kicks in and reviews all of
Claude's memory files. So it does four
things. It converts relative dates to
absolute dates. So yesterday becomes on
March 30th. It deletes your contradicted
facts. It merges duplicates and it
prunes through stale notes that
reference files or bugs that don't exist
anymore. And here's where it gets
smarter because it keeps your memory.md
index under 200 lines because that file
loads at startup and every token spent
on memory is a token you can't spend on
actual work. So, Autodream is designed
to keep it lean so we can actually just
reference a small amount of context and
keep it manageable. Now, the best part
is it triggers automatically after 24
hours and 5 sessions. So, you don't even
have to do anything to benefit from
this. Now, there's supposed to be a
/stream command for this, but honestly,
it's not working for everyone yet. I
couldn't even get it working, but the
workaround is simple. You can just tell
Claude, "Consolidate my memory files,"
and it will run the same cleanup
process. So, Anthropic will probably fix
the slash command soon, but for now,
that natural language version is going
to work for you. So, your Claude code
sessions can now start cleaner, run
faster, don't get confused by their own
outdated notes. So, now we've got Claude
that remembers better. It runs on its
own and you can reach it from absolutely
anywhere. But here's the shift I think
most people are missing right now. And
it's not just about new features. It's
about how the way we work with claw code
is actually fundamentally changing. And
it's about going beyond the terminal. So
when claw code launched, it was
completely a terminal tool. If you
weren't comfortable with that command
line, then that was a barrier. But this
quarter something really interesting
started happening. People have started
building layers on top of claw code that
look nothing like a terminal anymore.
And I think this is the most important
trend to pay attention to right now
because it's not one feature, it's a
shift in how we use claw code. So let me
give you some examples. Anthropic
themselves shipped agent teams this
quarter. So you could have multiple
clawed instances working in parallel on
different parts of a project and
coordinating through that shared task
list and a mailbox system. And that
works with one lead agent, multiple
teammates. And they could all
communicate with each other. So not just
parallel execution of terminals, actual
collaboration between teams. But what's
more interesting is what the community
is building. People are abstracting claw
code away from the terminal entirely. So
you've got tools like pulsia.com and
that puts a visual interface on top of
claw code sessions and it's designed to
just run your company autonomously. Then
we've got paperclipip.in which is
effectively an open- source equivalent
for agents that run your company
autonomously. And then we've got
cananband style project management
systems where you still have control and
can manage all of your projects. You're
acting as a supervisor to multiple
terminal sessions. So there's some tech
developer focused ones like vibe canban
or mission control from openclaw or one
I've recently built for my school
community that's totally business
focused and allows you to manage all
active projects in claw code and tasks
at a high level. So watch the video I'm
launching later this week to see more
about that one. And then you've got
people creating repeatable operating
systems to store all of your business
context, which means your agents know
your business context, store memories of
all your work, and that speeds up all
your task management. And this is
something we also teach in my academy
where we've got 18 production skills
connected to shared brand context, and a
self-arning loop with an agent that
maintains its own memories and improves
over time. So, think of this like custom
GPTs and all of your claw projects with
your business context, but on steroids.
And then there's even the claw desktop
app which brought scheduled tasks and a
more visual UI which is coupled with
claw co-work which is basically claw
code with a guey for nontechnical users.
So the pattern is really clear. Claw
code started as a developer tool but
it's now becoming an operating system
for the way we work. The terminal is
definitely still there and it's still
powerful but it's becoming one of many
interfaces and not the only one. And for
business owners watching this that's the
bit that matters. You don't need to be a
developer to use what claw code can do
anymore. You just need the right
interface on top of it to use it in the
right way for you. So claw code is
evolving from a terminal tool into a
platform. And now the question is just
what interface works best for the way I
work and for my workflow. Okay, so we've
covered the big shifts, but there are a
few more updates from this quarter that
you should know about. So let me rapid
fire through these. The first is Google
Workspace command line interface. Quite
wordy, but I covered this in my last
video. Here's the short version. Google
released an open-source command line
interface that gives Claude Code access
to your entire Google ecosystem. So, you
can access Drive, Gmail, Calendar, Docs,
and they have over a 100 built-in
recipes for how you can work with this
include code. So, it's one tool that
replaces many MCP integrations that were
built before it. Then, we've got Skills
2.0, also shown in my last video. The
skill creator now includes a built-in
evaluation system so you can test your
own skills against specific criteria and
improve them at a much faster rate. You
get scored results back and even AB test
with different versions against each
other or taking out certain reference
files from your skills. And the idea is
we go from a skill that kind of works
that we have to adapt and maintain over
many months to a skill that is actually
an 80% version from the get- go. Claw
code also introduced voice mode. It
seems so long ago now, but you can use
the /v voice command, hold spacebar,
speak your instructions, and it even
works in 20 plus languages now. And if
you're not voice dictating using
something like whisper flow or the
built-in functionality, you are limiting
your own productivity because you can
speak much faster than you can type. And
actually, one more huge update, the 1
million token context window is now
available for Opus 4.6. So, the most
powerful model with the biggest context
window. So, it can now work with massive
code bases or long documents and there's
no longer a blocker on context.
Although, I would caveat that I don't
recommend loading in 1 million tokens.
You're going to get massively degraded
performance. Now, every one of these
makes Claw Code more capable, but
together they make it a completely
different tool than it was 3 months ago.
And if you want a head start on all of
this, I've got a complete Aentic
operating system built on Claw Code
inside my academy in the description. So
there's 18 production skills, brand
memory and context, self-learning loop,
and you can access the whole thing
through a non-technical visual UI. And
Claw Code is not slowing down. So, if
you want more like this, drop a comment
below and see you in the next